docs(ing2gw): add NGINX-to-Gateway migration guide (#2623)
tigera/docs: calico/networking/ingress-gateway/migrate-from-nginx.mdx

---
description: Step-by-step guide to migrate NGINX Ingress resources to Calico Ingress Gateway (Envoy Gateway), with annotation reference and a link to an open-source conversion tool.
title: Migrating from NGINX
---

# Migrating from NGINX Ingress

> NGINX Ingress Controller [retired in March 2026](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2025/11/11/ingress-nginx-retirement/) — no more releases, bugfixes, or security patches. Calico Ingress Gateway, powered by Envoy Gateway, is the recommended replacement.

Reviewer: This needs to be toned down, neutral statement of how you can use Calico Ingress Gateway instead.

> This guide explains the conceptual mapping from NGINX Ingress to Gateway API, walks through a step-by-step migration workflow, and points you at an open-source tool that drafts your Gateway API resources from existing Ingress YAML.

Reviewer: Should we be consistent that it's NGINX Ingress --> CIG, rather than Gateway API?

:::warning About the conversion tool

> The [open-source converter](https://tigera.github.io/ing2gw/) maps annotations mechanically. It cannot judge intent, exercise traffic, or guarantee behavioral parity. Treat its output as a **starting draft, not a finished migration**. Every generated resource must be reviewed, validated, and tested in a non-production cluster before cutover. The tool may produce incorrect or incomplete output for edge cases — verify, then verify again.

Reviewer: Move from warning to tip, make this more about if you're ready to get started you can jump straight to the tool. Small mention of non-prod nature of the output. Let's leave details to the end section of the page.

:::

## Why Gateway API

> NGINX Ingress encodes behavior in vendor-specific annotation strings on `Ingress` objects. Gateway API encodes the same behavior in typed CRDs that any conformant controller (Envoy Gateway, Istio, Cilium, kgateway, etc.) can read. The mental shift:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NGINX Ingress encodes behavior in vendor-specific annotation strings on `Ingress` objects. Gateway API encodes the same behavior in typed CRDs that any conformant controller (such as Envoy Gateway, Istio, Cilium, and kgateway) can read. The mental shift:
```

| NGINX Ingress | Gateway API + Envoy Gateway |
| --- | --- |
| Annotation strings on `Ingress` | Typed fields on `HTTPRoute`, `SecurityPolicy`, `BackendTrafficPolicy`, `ClientTrafficPolicy` |
| Behavior depends on which controller reads the annotation | Behavior depends on a policy's `targetRef` to a route or gateway |
| Controller-specific snippets for advanced cases | `EnvoyPatchPolicy` or Lua filters for advanced cases |
| Single resource owns routing, TLS, security, traffic shaping | Concerns split across `Gateway`, `HTTPRoute`, and policy CRDs |

> ## What converts cleanly, what doesn't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What converts cleanly and what doesn't
```

**Mostly mechanical (the tool will get most of these right):**

- Hosts, paths, TLS termination, backends → `Gateway`, `HTTPRoute`, `ReferenceGrant`
- CORS → `SecurityPolicy.spec.cors`
- Basic auth, JWT, OAuth2/OIDC → `SecurityPolicy.spec.basicAuth | jwt | oidc`
- Rate limiting → `BackendTrafficPolicy.spec.rateLimit`
- Timeouts, retries, circuit breaker → `BackendTrafficPolicy.spec.timeout | retry | circuitBreaker`
- Redirects, rewrites → `HTTPRoute.spec.rules[].filters`
- Session affinity (cookie-based) → `BackendTrafficPolicy.spec.sessionPersistence`

**Needs human judgment (do not trust the tool blindly):**

- `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/configuration-snippet` and `server-snippet` — raw NGINX config has no automatic equivalent. Reimplement as `EnvoyPatchPolicy` or a Lua filter.
- mTLS — concept maps but cert chains, SNI handling, and client cert validation differ.
- NGINX Plus features (rich active health checks, advanced load balancing) — partial mapping at best.
- Custom error pages and complex `error_page` directives.
- Anything depending on NGINX-specific variables (`$http_*`, `$request_*`) used in snippets.

> ## Step-by-step workflow

Reviewer: Migration workflow

> ### 1. Inventory

Reviewer: Step 1: Create an inventory

Same throughout

Catalogue every `Ingress` resource and the annotations it uses. Note the annotation prefix (community NGINX uses `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/`; NGINX Inc / F5 uses `nginx.org/` and `nginx.com/`):

```bash
kubectl get ingress -A -o yaml
```

> ### 2. Back up

Reviewer: Step 2: Back up your resources

Reviewer: Use this format throughout: Step N: Do something

```bash
egctl experimental translate --type gateway-api --file generated.yaml --output yaml
```

### 5. Apply to a non-production cluster and test

Apply to a non-prod cluster running Calico Ingress Gateway. Exercise:

- **TLS** — cert chain, SNI selection, redirect-to-HTTPS, HSTS
- **Auth** — every protected route with valid and invalid credentials/tokens
- **Rate limit** — confirm thresholds match expected behavior (note: NGINX uses leaky bucket, Envoy uses token bucket — same numeric limits, different burst semantics)
- **Timeouts and retries** — under intentional upstream slowness or failures
- **Session affinity** — repeated requests from the same client land on the same backend
- **CORS** — preflight responses match NGINX's behavior on every protected origin

### 6. Parallel run in production

Deploy Calico Ingress Gateway alongside the existing NGINX Ingress controller. Shift traffic gradually using one of:

- DNS weighting between two LoadBalancer addresses
- Header-based or query-param-based routing in front of both
- Percentage canary at the edge load balancer

Keep NGINX live and serving traffic until parity is proven under representative load.

> ### 7. Cutover

Reviewer: Perhaps "Remove NGINX" or similar

Once parity is proven and traffic is fully on Envoy Gateway, retire the NGINX Ingress controller and delete the `Ingress` resources.

### 8. Have a rollback path

Until cutover is final, keep the original `Ingress` resources and the ingress-nginx controller deployable. Rolling back should be a DNS change or undoing the percentage shift — not a manifest re-apply under fire.

> 

Reviewer: I don't see what this adds. It tells you to not delete things until you delete them? In the previous step?

> ## Common gotchas

Reviewer: gotchas --> problems

- **Annotation prefix detection.** The converter auto-detects `nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io/` vs `nginx.org/`/`nginx.com/`. Double-check on a representative sample before bulk-converting.
- **Envoy Gateway version skew.** Some fields (e.g. `SecurityPolicy.spec.tls` vs `ClientTrafficPolicy.spec.tls`) moved between EG releases. Calico Ingress Gateway currently ships EG 1.5.x; verify the generated YAML against the version actually deployed in your cluster, not against EG documentation.
- **Rate-limit semantics differ.** NGINX uses leaky bucket; Envoy uses token bucket. Same numeric limits will behave differently under burst traffic.
- **`ReferenceGrant` is not optional.** Cross-namespace references (`HTTPRoute` → `Service`, `Gateway` → TLS `Secret`) require an explicit `ReferenceGrant`. The converter generates these, but if you hand-edit the output it's easy to drop one and end up with silently broken routing.

## Conversion tool

The conversion tool is hosted at **[tigera.github.io/ing2gw](https://tigera.github.io/ing2gw/)**. It runs entirely in the browser — your YAML never leaves your machine.

> **Reminder:** the tool is a starting point, not a finished migration. Every generated resource must be reviewed, validated with `egctl`, tested in a non-prod cluster, and proven at parity before cutover. If a generated resource looks wrong or an annotation isn't handled, raise it with your Tigera contact.

Reviewer: This is a good place to explain a bit more about the tool. What it does, input/output, documentation stuff. 

Change reminder to warning annotation

## Need help?

> For complex migrations (hundreds of `Ingress` resources, custom NGINX snippets, mTLS, NGINX Plus features), [talk to a Tigera engineer](https://www.tigera.io/contact/).

Reviewer: Probably best to send to Calico Users, no?
